In our last video we built
a simulation by adding uncertainty
to a flight overbooking model.
The model has two sources of uncertainty,
the demand and the show-up rate.
Let's review the simulation
model that we created.
So locate and open the Excel file,
Flight Overbooking Simulation.
This workbook has two tabs.
Click on the Overbooking Simulation tab.
The top table has the problem data and
the bottom table has a model.
The model starts with a policy
decision of the overbooking limit.
This is the yellow cell, B13.
The two green cells, B14 and B17,
are the ones with the certainty.
In B14, we use the PsiPoisson function
from the analytic solver platform to
model the actual demand based on
the average demand of 150 passengers.
In cell B17, we use PsiBinomial
to model the show up process.
The binomial has two parameters,
the number of passengers that were booked,
which is in cell B17, and the probability
that they show up, which is in cell B6.
The model calculates
the number of no shows and
then it determines how many passengers
will actually board the plane,
versus those who are bumped
to a later flight.
The last part of the model calculates
revenue, cost and net revenue.
If we recalculate
the spreadsheet by pressing F9,
we can see that the values
in the green cells change.
And that causes changes in both
the number of bumped passengers and
in the net revenue.
We have highlighted these two cells
with light orange to indicate these
are outputs we're interested in tracking.
Every time that we recalculate
the spreadsheet, 10,000 values for
the actual demand and
the ready to board cells are generated.
Each set of values is what in
simulation is called a trial.
As we mentioned in our previous video,
you can change the number of trials
in the tools group of the ASP tab.
We need to tell the simulator that
we would like to track the number
of bumped passengers and the net revenue.
This is done by selecting cells B20 and
B24, and
clicking on Results in the simulation
model group of the ASP tab.
Once we do that, we can check
the cells to see what has changed.
By clicking on cell B20,
we can see that there is an additional
function called PsiOutput.
This function does not
modify the cell calculation.
It is there to tell the simulator that
the cell is a simulation output and
it that it should collect data on
it when the simulation is run.
The same function was added to cell B24.
To run the simulation,
click on the Play button
in the Model tab of the Solver options and
Model Specifications panel.
To analyze results, double-click on B24.
The simulator displays the empirical
distribution of net revenue that
results from the simulation
of 10,000 trials.
In addition to the empirical distribution,
the software reports
the most common statistics.
For example,
the simulation results show that
the new revenue is estimated to be $45,196
with a minimum value of $33,644 and
a maximum value of $47,778.
Estimating a range for
the net revenue is important.
But what's interesting is being able to
estimate the probability of
collecting some target net revenue.
For example, let's suppose that we were
interested in knowing the probability that
the net revenue is $45,000 or more.
We can do this using the markers
in the distribution chart.
The markers are red dotted vertical lines.
There is a lower and an upper marker.
In this case, we only need the lower
marker, which we place on the value of 45.
So remove the upper marker and enter 45
in the text box for the lower marker.
We now see that the distribution
estimates that there is 63.83%
probability that the net revenue
will be $45,000 or more.
A similar analysis is possible on
the number of bumped passengers.
Recall that the deterministic
model estimates that, on average,
1 passenger will be bumped when setting
the overbooking limit to 13 passengers.
If we double-click on cell B20,
we access the distribution of bumped
passengers that results
from the simulation.
The mean value of this distribution is 1,
as predicted by the deterministic model.
However, now we have
additional information.
For instance, if we set the lower
marker to a value of 2,
we discover that according to our
simulation results there is a 24.55%
chance that the number of
bumped passengers is 2 or more.
We can also find that there is a low,
over 10% chance that the number of
bumped passengers is 5 or more.
These probabilities represent the risk of
the overbooking limit that we have chosen.
The simulation can now be used
to find an overbooking limit
that meets some desirable level of risk.
For instance, suppose that the airline
would like at least a 95% chance
that the number of bumped passengers
is less than or equal to 2.
Which overbooking limit
would accomplish this?
Let's use the interactive simulation
feature to find this out.
In the Solve Actual group of the ASP tab,
click on the Simulation bulb.
The bulb should turn yellow.
We then click on B20 to open
the frequency distribution chart.
We set the lower marker to 2, and
start decreasing the overbooking limit.
Every time we enter a new number,
the spreadsheet is recalculated and
the simulation is run.
The frequency chart is updated at
the end of the simulation, and
we can see the change in
the probability value
that the number of bumped passengers
is less than or equal to 2.
We keep decreasing the overbooking
limit until we find out that a limit of
9 results in a probability
slightly higher than 95%.
Now we have an overbooking limit for
this flight that meets the airline policy.
In this video, we have added output
variables to our simulation model by
using the PsiOutput function of
the Analytic Solver Platform.
This function instructs the simulator
to collect data on the cell where
the function is added.
The collected data generates an empirical
distribution of the output variable.
This distribution helps us analyze risk,
which we define as a probability
of some undesirable outcome.
In our overbooking example,
the undesirable outcome is either empty
seats or too many bumped passengers.
The empirical distributions
of net revenue and
bumped passengers can be used to asses
the risk of various overbooking limits.
Finally, we show how to use
the interactive simulation feature
in the context of searching for
an overbooking limit that could
meet a particular airline policy.
This example has shown the power of
simulation as a predictive analytics tool.
We will explore additional features
in the next videos for this module.